Access Control is the set of policies and mechanisms that ensure users cannot act outside their intended permissions. Authorization indicates that access is provided only to users entitled to the usage. Authorization comes in after a user is successfully authenticated and a valid session is set up. Broken Access Control presents the failure of access control mechanisms, aiming to limit or control access to resources appropriately.

Access controls are a critical defense mechanism within the application. They are responsible for deciding whether they should permit a given request to perform its attempted action or access its requested resources.

Access controls can be classified into three categories:

- Vertical access controls allow different types of users to access various application functions, such as the role of an admin and other ordinary users.
- Horizontal access controls allow the same group of users to access the same type of functionality.    
- Context-dependent access controls allow access to functionality and resources depending on the state of the application.

Broken Access Control is included in the category with the most severe web application security risk by OWASP.
# Introduction to CSRF

As indicated by its name, *Request Forgery* is a fabricated request. **Cross-Site Request Forgery, also known as CSRF**, is a common web vulnerability used by attackers to trick victims into generating a request that performs specific actions on behalf of the logged-in victim. The request is similar to standard requests generated by the user's browser; thus, the webserver executes its actions. CSRF vulnerabilities can be critical, resulting in password change, account takeover, etc.

Open the browser and visit demo.com on port 5000.
`demo.com:5000
To begin, click on the CSFR link. The link presents a login page. In it, type the following default credentials (username: `admin`, password: `admin`) to continue.
# Start Burp Suite

Burp Suite is a tool that comes in helpful when attacking websites and web applications. Burp Suite acts as a proxy, controlling the flow of traffic between an attacker's browser and the target.
# Configuring Firefox

Go to the "Proxy" > "Intercept" tab and make sure that the interception action is on.

To configure Firefox for testing with Burp, go to the Firefox Menu and select Preferences.
Click on 'Manual proxy configuration'. Afterwards, set the IP address to `127.0.0.1` and the Burp Proxy listener port to `8080`. To finish, click OK to close all of the options dialogs.