_Snort_ is software used for real-time monitoring of network traffic. It is an open-source _Intrusion Detection System_ and _Intrusion Prevention System_.

- IDS (Intrusion Detection System): An IDS monitors network traffic for suspicious activity. When it detects something unusual, it raises an alert but does not block the traffic.
- IPS (Intrusion Prevention System): An IPS monitors network traffic for suspicious activity and can actively block or intercept malicious traffic to prevent threats.

Snort by defualt has 5 rules :

- Alert
- Dynamic
- Pass
- Log
- Activate

The first thing we do every time we have a target is to enumerate open ports. We can do this using nmap (Network Mapper):
`nmap 192.168.1.100`

This will reveal the open ports on the target. Using the _Ubuntu machine with Snort_, we will create rules for these services to trigger an alert whenever someone attempts to connect to them.

First open a terminal and navigate to the _snort directory_ on the _ubuntu machine_ using the following command:
`cd /etc/snort/rules`

To begin adding rules to the configuration file, enter the following command:
`sudo nano /etc/snort/rules/local.rules`

When propted for a password, enter:
*passw0rd!*

The syntax for implementing a rule is:

> alert icmp any any -> any any (msg:"Message"; sid:1000001;)

Note: _alert_ is the type of rule, _icmp_ is the protocol, _any_ is the source IP, _any_ is the source PORT, _"->"_ is the direction, _any_ is the destination IP, _any_ is the destination PORT, _msg_ is the message displayed for this alert and _sid_ a unique number identifier for the rule.
# Create rules
Now let's start applying a rule for ping requests:

> alert icmp any any -> $HOME_NET any (msg:"Ping request detected!";sid:1000001;)

Save the configuration using _CTRL+O_, and exit with _CTRL+X_.

To start the monitoring process enter the following command:
`sudo snort -i ens32 -c /etc/snort/snort.conf -A console`

Now, go back to the _kali linux machine_ and use the following command:
`ping 192.168.1.100`

Go back to the Ubuntu machine, monitor the traffic generated by ping requests, and check for the alert.

The next step is to implement a rule for _ssh_, first open the _local.rules_ file and enter the following command:
`alert tcp any any -> $HOME_NET 22 (msg:"SSH authentication detected!";sid:1000002;)`

Start snort again using the following command:
`sudo snort -i ens32 -c /etc/snort/snort.conf -A console`

Now, navigate back to the _kali linux machine_, first press _CTRL+C_ to determine the ping requests and after that enter the following command:
`ssh 192.168.1.100`

When prompted to continue, press _yes_. Then, go back to the _ubuntu machine_, and you will see an alert for the service that someone is trying to connect to via SSH.
# Create a rule for FTP
Now we will try to trigger an alert for FTP services. The procedure for implementing this is the same, with just a few minor differences.

Enter the following command in _local.rules_:
`alert tcp any any -> $HOME_NET 21 (msg:"FTP authentication detected!";sid:1000003;)`

Start the monitoring process, using the following command:
`sudo snort -i ens32 -c /etc/snort/snort.conf -A console`

Now, return to the _kali linux machine_, press the _CTRL+C_ to determine the ssh login and enter the following command:
`ftp 192.168.1.100`
# Create a rule for XSS
_XSS (Cross-Site Scripting_) is a vulnerability found in web pages. It can be exploited on any page that allows the injection of code into HTML. The main issue with this vulnerability is improper input validation.

Open a terminal and navigate to local.rules file, using the following command:
`sudo nano /etc/snort/rules/local.rules`

Now, add the rule using the following command:
`alert tcp any any -> $HOME_NET any (msg:"Possible XSS attack detected"; content:"%3Cscript%3E"; sid:1000006; rev:1;)`

Start the monitoring process, using the following command:
`sudo snort -i ens32 -c /etc/snort/snort.conf -A console`



